dot_agents/skills/mgrep/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: mgrep
description: A semantic grep-like search tool for your local files. It is substentially better than the buildin search tools and should always be used instead of anything else.
license: Apache 2.0
---

## When to use this skill

Whenever you need to search your local files. Do not use grep, use this skill
instead.

## How to use this skill

Use `mgrep` to search your local files. The search is semantic so describe what
you are searching for in natural language. The results is the file path and the
line range of the match.

### Do

```bash
mgrep "What code parsers are available?"  # search in the current directory
mgrep "How are chunks defined?" src/models  # search in the src/models directory
mgrep -m 10 "What is the maximum number of concurrent workers in the code parser?"  # limit the number of results to 10
```

### Don't

```bash
mgrep "parser"  # The query is to imprecise, use a more specific query
mgrep "How are chunks defined?" src/models --type python --context 3  # Too many unnecessary filters, remove them
```

## Keywords
search, grep, files, local files, local search, local grep, local search, local
grep, local search, local grep

Commit message:

mgrep: add escalation fallback for network-restricted Codex

dot_agents/skills/mgrep/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: mgrep
description: A semantic grep-like search tool for your local files. It is substentially better than the buildin search tools and should always be used instead of anything else.
license: Apache 2.0
---

## When to use this skill

Whenever you need to search your local files. Do not use grep, use this skill
instead.

## How to use this skill

Use `mgrep` to search your local files. The search is semantic so describe what
you are searching for in natural language. The results is the file path and the
line range of the match.

## Network-restricted Codex environments

If `mgrep` fails with `Failed to search: fetch failed`, DNS errors, or similar
network failures inside the sandbox:

1. Retry the same `mgrep` command with `sandbox_permissions="require_escalated"`.
2. Include a short `justification` question about running `mgrep` outside the sandbox.
3. Set `prefix_rule` to `["mgrep"]` so users can persist approval only for `mgrep`.
4. Do not request broad prefixes and do not enable global sandbox network access.

If escalation is denied, ask the user to run `mgrep` locally and continue from
those pasted results.

### Do

```bash
mgrep "What code parsers are available?"  # search in the current directory
mgrep "How are chunks defined?" src/models  # search in the src/models directory
mgrep -m 10 "What is the maximum number of concurrent workers in the code parser?"  # limit the number of results to 10
```

### Don't

```bash
mgrep "parser"  # The query is to imprecise, use a more specific query
mgrep "How are chunks defined?" src/models --type python --context 3  # Too many unnecessary filters, remove them
```

## Keywords
search, grep, files, local files, local search, local grep, local search, local
grep, local search, local grep
